---
layout: post
title:  "Towndex"
date:   2022-02-13
categories: projects
---

For the last few weeks I've been taking a break from Paradicms, digital museum collections, and digital exhibitions and focusing on a new personal project, applying a similar technical approach to a different domain: local government.

[Towndex](https://github.com/towndex) extracts titles, authors, keywords, named entities, and other information from a curated set of PDF documents in order to build multiple indices over the documents. A browser-based, single-page application provides faceted and fulltext search using the indices.

Towndex reuses the software architecture and some code from Paradicms in a simpler form. The extraction process is implemented in Python, using libraries like spaCy. The web application is implemented in TypeScript and React with Lunr.js for fulltext search. A custom GitHub Action ties everything together.

Unlike Paradicms, the system isn't designed to generate an entire web site. The Towndex interface is intended to be a single page within a larger site. It is entirely browser-based, with no server dependency, so it can be hosted cheaply and securely.

Most state and local government documents are in copyright, unlike federal government documents, which are denied copyright protection. The Towndex application does not host any documents itself, but serves as an index to documents hosted elsewhere, with clear attribution.

I see this project as a complement to existing government web sites, rather than an attempt to replace them. Like most of my personal projects, it's also been a vehicle for me to learn about new techniques and technologies, such as natural language processing.
