---
layout: post
title:  "New year"
date:   2022-01-01
categories: experiences
---

It's the first day of the new year. I am listening to [Beethoven's _Missa Solemnis_ again]({% post_url 2021-01-01-rituals %}) and thinking about the last year and the one ahead.

2021 was a challenging year. I lost my father in November. My professional life has been in a rut. I spent a lot of time at home because of the ongoing pandemic, met fewer people than in previous years, and had fewer new experiences. But we stayed healthy throughout the year. I am grateful for that.

Like most people I've struggled to adapt to the current state of affairs, which has persisted far longer than anticipated. In the new year I would like to come to better terms with the way things are and enjoy my life more as it is.

During the holiday break I moved my home office and computers into the basement, which has encouraged greater separation between my work and personal lives. I've found myself spending more time reading books and less time reading the news on a screen. That's a positive change, and I hope it persists once the break is over.

This year I'd like to spend less of my personal time coding and more doing other things I enjoy, like reading, writing, and photography. I've made the same resolution in years past, but haven't followed through very well. I've been coding for decades, and it's an easy way to pass the time, no matter how fragmented that time is or how little concentration I have left after the kids have gone to bed. Coding is just not as enjoyable as it used to be.

I did better with this in 2021 than in 2020 and the years before it, although I had about the same time as before. I read more books in the last year, and enjoyed more of them, because I was willing to set aside ones I didn't enjoy (usually because of poor writing). I wrote more blog posts and started the [Bildungsroman]({% post_url 2021-12-30-bildungsroman %}) digital exhibitions. In 2022 I'm going to help my wife with a new course she's developing on digital exhibitions, and I want to try my hand at long-form writing.

A similar and similarly-recurring goal is to find a better balance between doing my work and promoting it. Historically I haven't devoted enough time and effort to the latter; and I believe that's hampered my prospects of finding like-minded collaborators.

I am cautiously optimistic about the year ahead. Although my circumstances are unlikely to change drastically in the very near term, I feel like my ability to make the best of the moment has improved year after year, and I've been happier as a result.