---
categories: [opinions]
date: 2025-05-01
description: Solving the wrong problems
layout: post
title:  "Betrieb"
---

> They divided the subject on which they were working into unnumerable small parts and then let each part be handled by a student. The student's task under these circumstances was relatively easy, and was dealt with in great detail so as to create an impression of being important. In this way there arose what was known in Germany as the 'Betrieb' (mill), where to all outward appearances no distinction is made between worthwhile ideas and trivialities. Everything produced was a 'contribution to the literature,' which had to be cited by every other subsequent writer if he wanted to be 'scientific'. An agreeable feeling of activity surrounded both teacher and students. They became so engrossed in this activity and industry that the larger problem that the partial studies were supposed to elucidate was often forgotten. The production of dissertations and papers became an end in itself.

(Philipp Frank, _Einstein: His Life and Times_)

Like many people I started my career with a surplus of time and energy and poor judgment about how to spend them. I put considerable effort into solving problems that weren't worth it. With age and experience I've learned to be more conscientious about what I focus on, and recognize the hallmarks of problems that aren't worth solving.

**Artifical constraints.** You can easily spend a career working under constraints that used to make sense, or still make sense in some contexts, but not in the one you're currently working in. For example, in software development you often have to work with "legacy" programming languages, operating systems, and other tools that were designed for very different contexts.

**Unvalidated requirements.** People can usually give you a reliable enough account what they've done in the past and what they don't like about existing solutions to some problem. People rarely have precise ideas about what they do want. The few who have specific, positive ideas often struggle to articulate them. And you still have to a validate that people actually want what they say they want. This is the essence of [user research](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Research).

It's very tempting to sidestep all that and simply imagine what people might want. In practice that's usually some version of what you would want. That's fine if solving a problem for yourself alone is your goal. In any other situation, unvalidated requirements inevitably lead to wasted time and effort.

**Reinvention.** Many solutions can be improved upon with the benefit of hindsight. You can often eliminate some of the mistakes, warts, and compromises that inevitably accumulate when a solution evolves incrementally. The important question is: how much improvement can you make? Only dramatic improvements over the status quo are likely to induce people to switch from a mature solution. Anything less than that is not worth the effort.

**Pseudo-problems and busywork** like creating a report no one consumes. These are often associated with [bullshit jobs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bullshit_job).

**[Boondoggles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boondoggle)** that are known to be a waste of time but continue for other reasons.
